01.html

Box Model
all the elements in the browser are interpreted as a box in html

Height : it sets the content area height of the elements
a div wothout the content is zero
the height is set for the content area not for the whole div

Width: it sets the width area of the box

border : elements border

1. border-width
2. border-style
3. border-color

border-radius
used to round the corners of the border
border-radius = 50% will make a circular shape

padding : it is the area between the border and content

padding: 20px 40px 100px 100px;
this is written for top right bottom left -> clockwise direction

margin :
this is the space between two elements (boxes), it is the space outside the border
heading element is given some default margin, to remove it set the margin to 0

02.html
Display:
it controls that if an element will be treated as an inline element or block element

Block : 
1. always start a new line
2. take up as much horizontal space as possible (the full width of the browser window if there is no container)
3. will respect width and height css property
4. horizontal and vertical margins both work

Inline :
1. do not start on a new line
2. take up as much horizontal space as required by the content.
3. Does not accept the width and the height property
4. margins work horizontally but not vertically
5. padding works on all sides. but the top and bottom may overlap other elements

03.html
Inline Block:
this will keep the styling according to block elements but makes the element inline

display none will hide the elements

04.html
Relative Units in css

1. Percentage : it isoften used to define a size relative to an elements parent object


05.html

2.em: text property relative to the parent
      other properties relative to itself

06.html
in ems ther can be a snowballing effect seen for the nested elements : here small push creates drastic and changes of major intensity

07.html
rem : font size of the root element size

li (list items) have their display property set to "list-item" by default which makes them a bulleted list item
when this property is reset by you ti  "inline", then the bullet point also dissapear. In a way, we override the default settings with our CSS