01.html

Alpha channel
sets the opacity for the color
it ranges from 0 to 1 -> 0 means o opacity and 1 means complete opacity
rgba(255 , 255 , 255 , 0.3)

opacity

sets the opacity of hte complete element

02.html

transitions 
it enables you to define the transition between two elements

transition shorthand -> property name | duration | timing-function | delay

note: to center any div we can use margin: auto

03.html

transform
this property lets you rotate, scale, skew or translate an element

1. rotate
transform : rotate(45deg)

2. Scale
transform:scale(3)

transform:scale(x ,y)

3.translate

transform:translate(50px, 60px)

4.skew
transform:skew(30deg)


04.html

box shadow

adds a shadow effect around an element frame

box-shadow: 2px 2px 10px green
box-shadow: x-offset y-offset blur-radius color

background image
lets set an image in the background

background-image: url("link to the image")
background-size:contain/cover/auto

contain -> fitting without cropping, scalling byt image will be repeated
cover -> cropped but not scaled
auto -> scaled but not cropped

06.html

position property

the position property lets us decide how an element is positioned in the document

the top, left , right and bottom properties determine the location of the positioned element

1. static -> 
this is the default value, the top, right, botom, and left and z index have no effect 
there will be no change in the position with the top, bottom etc values

2. relative -> 
the offset is relative to itself based on the values of top, bottom, right and left
the elements are positioned relative to the center of their initial position

3. absolute -> 
the element is removed from the normal document flow, and no space is created for the element in the page layout.
it is positioned relative to its closest ositioned ancestor, if any is present. otherwise, it is positioned relative to the 
initial containing box
in absolute positioned the space is not left vacant for the element

4. fixed ->
the element is removed from the normal document flow. and no space is created for the element in the page layout
it is positioned relative to the initial containing block established by the viewport
it remains fixed on the screen. generally used to create navbars in the screen

except when one of its ancestors has a transform, perspective or filter property set to someting other than none

5. sticky -> it sticks to the screen white scrolling