CSS -> cascading style sheets

it is a language used for styling the skeleton formed by the HTML files
we add properties from the CSS to style the document

to remove the CSS from any webpage go to inspect and delete the head tags


Basic format for CSS

selector {
    property : value;
}

selector is the HTML element which needs to be changes
property is the styling property
value is the unit given to the CSS property

01.HTML

there are three options to add CSS in the document

1. inline style -> adding the CSS in the HTML file itself in the perticular element where the styles are needed to be added
we do not use inline styles as they promote repetition of the code 


02.html

2. using the style tag
inside the head tag we can create a style tag and add the property value pairs

we do not use this format as it gives styles to only one file of the document. there can be multiple files so there will be repetition

03.html
3. using the style.css file

we write the styles in a seperate .css file and link it with the HTML file
we use the link tag in the head, 
<link rel= "stylesheet" href = "styles.css">
we use this format for styling


04.html

color property

sets the foreground color of the element.
we use three color formats for the value
1. name of the color : there are around 140 colors having names
2. RGB value : red (255,0,0) , green (0,255,0) , blue (0,0,255) , white (255,255,255), black(0,0,0) , yellow (255,255,0) , magenta (255, 0 ,255) , cyan(0,255,255)
3. HEX code : 0 to f charactes are given which make the hexadecimal values
e.g. ffffff , 000000 
also if htere is repetition we can write the short form fff , 000

color : #000000;


05.HTML

background-color property

this is used to change the background color of the element
we can also set the background color with the background property for some elements.

06.html

text properties

1. text align -> this is for the alignment of text
the allignment is adjusted wrt parent element

for the left and right alignment we can use start and end too

2. font weight -> this is for changing the width of the font, boldness of text
100 - 900 range with increasing boldness
normal is 400

font weight bolder and lighter are used wrt parent element

3. text-decoration -> underline, overline and sutting

it is used to set the appearence of decorative lines
underline, overline and line-through
it is mainly used to remove the default underline of the anchor tag


4. line height -> space between two line rows
it is by default normal, writing any float value will make the line height n time of that number n 
e.g. linehight = 2.5 means 2.5 times if the normal.
other units are em, pixel and rem

5. letter spacing -> space between characters
letter spacing is increased in pixels

6. font-size -> size of text

units in font size are of two types -> absolute and relative

Absolute units -> px, pt, pc, cm, mm, in
1in = 96px
px is not used for responsive websites

Relative units -> %, em, rem, ch, vh, vw etc.
used for responsive sites
% -> percent of the page
em -> relative to the current ratio of the page
rem -> relative to the parent ratio


Font family
it specifies a prioritized list of one or more font family names
cssfontstack.com -> this site has fonts and their names, it also gives the OS proportions of the font family

if some font is not supported by some browser then the alternative or the default font will be shown
we generally create a list for all the fonts due to uneven availability


